CS 465 Journal Reflection

The MEAN stack, which includes MongoDB, Express JavaScript, Angular and Node JavaScript was used to develop the Traveler Getaways website. JavaScript and HTML were both used on the website's front end. The routes, controllers, and models for the website were created using JavaScript, as well as the main application file that exports the Express application (Holmes, 2019). Single-page applications provide administrative features for simple website upkeep and changes.  Express HTML is used to create web pages that are easy to read and understand. A client sends a request to the server, which then routes it to the correct end point, when using a complete stack application. There are many different kinds of endpoints, but the ones that are used the most frequently are URLs that connect to specific resources or operations.
The backend used MongoDB, a NoSQL database to store user login credentials and trip-related data. MongoDB has the ability to handle enormous amounts of data because to its scalability. The fact that MongoDB is fairly simple to modify makes it a very flexible database. MongoDB is a fast database that can transmit data quickly.
The key difference between JSON and JavaScript is that JSON is primarily used to store data. Functions cannot be included in JSON, although they can be included in JavaScript objects. JavaScript can convert JSON data because of their similar system. JSON bridges the gap between frontend and backend development by enabling data exchange (AltexSoft, 2020). Data is transferred from the server's backend to the frontend via JSON data. JSON is a data interchange format that can be used by different software components to communicate. The use of JSON is supported by a large number of programming languages.
Refactoring code is an vital step in the development process. Refactoring code contributes to enhancing usability, effectiveness, and user experience. Moving redundant html code to components that could be called from each page and changing the pages to dynamically load entries from the database are the two key examples of refactoring the code in this project to increase functionality. The header and footer were made into partials for the Handlebars which could be called in a file to have them display.
A full stack application must be tested to ensure that it functions as intended. It is necessary to test API endpoints to make sure they produce accurate data and function properly in a variety of circumstances. In this application, the user was verified and given permission to modify database data using the API endpoints. Data must be properly encrypted and only authorized users must have access to sensitive information, therefore security must be evaluated.
